(upbeat music)
Let's head back to this event loop example
we did where we added the classes of circle, red,
purple, and fade out.
And let's convert this callback hell
into the promise land.
And we're actually gonna come back one more time
when we learn async await and refactor it one more time.
So let's go to event loop HTML
and we'll just copy that over into a file
called promise-chain.html.
And the first thing I wanna do
is I wanna make a function that will simply
just wait for a certain amount of time.
And this is something I do in almost every project
that I have because it's such a common thing.
So make a function here, we'll call wait.
And it takes in the number of milliseconds
that you wanna wait.
And we'll just return a new promise
and then that promise is going to
just resolve after the number of milliseconds
that got sent in.
Let's actually default that to zero seconds,
and then here, we'll just take the resolve function.
This will say function like this.
The first argument is resolve,
and then we will set timeout
and after a certain amount of time,
we will run the resolve function.
Actually, we can just pass the resolve function directly
to set time out, and after the number of milliseconds
that were passed in.
Now, let's test that.
So, I'll say wait 200 milliseconds,
then we'll just console.log, done.
And we'll open that up.
(clicks)
There we go, that seems to be working.
Let's wait for two seconds just to make sure.
And two seconds later, all of that works.
Now, that's actually such a common thing
that I have a package called "waait,"
W-A-A-I-T.
We'll look at this when we hit packages,
but this is what gets 75,000 downloads
per week, and all it does is this.
It returns a promise
that resolves after the number of milliseconds
that are passed in.
And, if you take a look at the code on GitHub,
open up index.js,
that this is it.
We make a function called wait
that sets the amount to zero
and returns a new promise
that resolves after the amount of time that we have.
This is on multiple lines
that we could see how we could make that into one line.
We'd say const wait
is equal to a function.
Let's see if that still works.
Still works.
We can make this an arrow function.
Gonna make this 200 milliseconds,
so it goes faster.
Then we could use the implicit return right here.
So we could get rid of the return keyword,
and get rid of these curly brackets,
and put it all on one line here.
Still works.
Then, this resolve function can be turned into
an arrow function.
Still works.
We could put this on one line
and get rid of the semicolon and the curly brackets
that are needed here.
Still works.
And then, we could also get rid of the parentheses here,
if we like.
That's all on one line.
This is only my code over and over.
I sillily made it into a package
because I like to just,
rather than have to type it out every single time.
But, obviously,
it's something a lot of other people need as well.
So, now that we have this wait function,
we can start to tackle all of this
that goes on right here.
And let's just rewrite it.
All right, let's start chunkin' through all of this
set timeout garbage that we have,
and making it into promise-based function.
So, first thing I'm gonna do
is let's just make an external function here
that says handle click.
Let's name it animate.
And when somebody clicks the go button,
we will run animate.
Go addEventListener,
listen for a click and we will run the animate function.
That animate will take in the event
and now I'm just going to start moving things up to it.
So let's just put like a X's beside that.
So this doesn't actually trigger,
but we can sort of do it piece by piece.
So, first thing is we wanna grab the element.
So, we can copy, paste that up.
Then we want to change the text to go when clicked.
That's immediately, so we put that there.
Let's just make sure it works.
Okay, good.
Then we wanna make it a circle after two seconds.
So how do we wait for two seconds?
Well, we can say wait two seconds.
I'll just make it 200 milliseconds
so we're not waiting here forever.
Then we will chain a .then
onto the end of that.
And there's no piece of data
that comes, that is resolved from the wait.
It simply just is done.
So we're not gonna be passing any, like, response here.
So we'll just have an empty function.
And after two seconds,
we will add class of circle.
Let's see if that works.
Good.
Now, here's the hard part.
How do we make it red after 0.5 seconds?
Well, we can't go down here
and simply do that again
because watch it will go red immediately
before it goes to circle.
So, just like our callback,
it has to go inside of here.
But, what we can do is from this,
then we can return another wait of 500 milliseconds
and then we can chain another .then onto it
where we can put our third item in.
Now, this makes sense to start formatting it
each on their own line.
Then, .then.
Good.
Now, the fourth thing is make it a square
after 0.25 seconds.
Okay, from here.
Return wait 250 milliseconds,
.then, have another one.
And we'll have el.classList.add square.
It's not adding square.
It was removing circle.
Let's just stick with what we had down here.
Now the next one was make it purple after.
I'm gonna see,
if we wanna see how long this was.
500 milliseconds, okay.
So, go up here.
Return wait 500 milliseconds
or however long we initially said.
Chain another .then onto the end
and we'll say el.classList.remove
red and add purple.
(imitates beeps)
Workin' good.
And then, finally, after five half a second,
make it invisible.
We'll do the return.
Do another .then.
Have a function.
And we will say el.classList.add fadeOut.
Boom!
All right, so, you see what we've got here
is that we've taken this nested callback functions
and made it one level deep.
Which is waiting, returning, waiting, returning,
waiting, returning,
and that's chaining multiple .then's onto each other.
That gets much better when we hit async await,
but, as for now,
this is the best way that we can do to refactor
these promise and into a promise chain.
In the next video,
we will start to introduce async await
and see how we can make this look even better.